Yolko-san!
Asuna, you stay here!
Hold on!
Damn!
Teleportation?
Where's he planning to go?
Damn it.
I recognized my cowardly past
mitometeta okubyou na kako
Remaining ignorant, I cowered in fear
wakaranai mama ni kowagateta
My other self reflects reality onto the present
ushiro no jibun ga genjitsu wo ima ni utsusu
This world, where I envisioned countless skies,
ikutsu mo no sora wo kaita koko wa kitto
will surely drive my frail heart insane.
hakanai kokoro midashite
In my dreams, I soared in the skies,
yume de takaku tonda karada wa
shaking off any anxieties that clung to me
donna fuan matottemo furiharatteku
A subconscious thought expands outward
nemuru chiisa na omoi hirogaridashite
Notice my weakness and stay by me
kizuku yowai watashi kimi ga ireba
so I can confidently accept this dark world
kurai sekai tsuyoku ireta
I continue to dream for all of eternity
nagai yume miru kokoro wa sou eien de
I wanna always be with you.
I'll give you everything I have.
You idiot!
Don't be so impulsive!
Well?
Did you catch him?
No.
He got away using a teleport crystal.
Inns are designed to protect everyone inside them,
so I assumed we'd be safe from danger here.
Dammit.
That robe was Griselda's...
That was Griselda's ghost.
She rose from the dead to seek revenge!
If she's a ghost, PKing in safe areas should be a piece of cake.
That wasn't a ghost.
There has to be a logical explanation behind both safe area murders.
I'm sure of it.
I wonder if the one wearing the black robe really was Griselda-san's ghost.
After seeing something so unbelievable happen twice...
I'm starting to think it's not too far-fetched.
No...
That's definitely impossible.
Besides, if she was a ghost, she wouldn't have used a teleport crystal and—
Teleport crystal?
What is it?
No, it's nothing.
Here.
For me?
Why else would I be handing it to you?
Do you think I'm trying to mock you?
I-In that case, thank you.
It'll expire and disappear soon,
so you should eat it quickly.
O-Oh, okay...
Delicious.
Where'd you find the time to pack a lunch?
I did say it's about to expire.
I figured we wouldn't have much time to eat,
so I packed it in the morning.
As expected of the Knights of Blood's clearing group representative.
By the way, where'd you buy this?
I didn't buy it.
It's not from a store.
I can cook, you know.
U-Uh... How should I say this?
If you had put this up for auction, you could've made a fortune.
I don't have any more.
What's wrong?
I see. So that's what it was!
What is it? What did you realize?
I...
We... didn't witness anything.
We thought we did, but we were actually seeing something else.
Safe area murders...
There weren't any items or methods that would make them possible to begin with.
Griselda...
All I can do now is beg for your forgiveness.
I'm sorry! I really am!
Please forgive me, Griselda!
I...
I never thought that it'd happen!
Really?
What did you do?
What did you do to me, Schmitt?
I... On the day we decided to auction the ring,
I found a crystal and memo in my belt pouch, with instructions to—
Whose, Schmitt?
Whose instructions?
Grimlock?
You're dead, too?
Who was it? Who gave you the memo?
I-I don't know.
Honest!
The memo's instructions told me to get access to Griselda's room
by setting it as the destination of the corridor teleport crystal,
a-and then to put it in the guild bank...
And?
That's all I did!
I never intended to help the murderer.
Believe me! Please!
We recorded everything, Schmitt.
Th-They're alive?!
Yeah, they're fine.
Yolko-san and Caynz-shi, too.
B-But...
In safe areas, a player's HP won't normally drop.
However, objects expire.
Just like the sandwich did.
Back then, Caynz's armor was impaled by the spear.
The spear wasn't lowering Caynz's HP, but the armor's durability.
Th-Then what shattered back then was...
Yeah, it was only his armor.
And at the moment the armor's durability dropped to zero,
Caynz, who was still wearing it...
used a crystal to teleport away.
The result was an effect that closely mimicked the death effect,
yet was completely different.
So what about Yolko-san?
She must've talked to us with the dagger stuck in her back the whole time.
The whole time?
Think back.
Throughout the meeting, she didn't show her back to us even once.
As she continued talking to us, she closely monitored the decrease in durability.
When it was time, she acted like a dagger was thrown at her from outside.
Which means the man in the black robe was...
In all likelihood, it wasn't Grimlock.
It was Caynz.
Yolko-san and Caynz-shi thought that by using this method, they could fake their deaths.
Moreover, they thought they could spread fear by faking safe area murders.
And their goal was to find and expose the culprit of the ring incident.
They staged their deaths and created a phantom avenger.
Schmitt was probably under
suspicion from the beginning.
Hey, you still have Yolko on your friend list, right?
She's at a field on the 19th Floor.
At a small hill a short ways from the town area.
I see.
Anyway, let's leave the rest up to them.
We've done our part in this case already.
Okay.
R-Recorded?
So that's what it was...
You two cared for Griselda that much...
You didn't hate her either, right?
O-Of course not!
Believe me.
Well, it's true that because of the rare weapon I had bought with the extra money,
I was able to clear the entrance requirement for the Divine Dragon Alliance...
Paralysis?
One down!
No way. Are these guys...
This guy really is valuable prey.
Well, if it isn't a leader of the Divine Dragon Alliance?
The PK guild, Laughing Coffin!
Now, how should we play with you guys?
That! Let's play that, Head!
The game where we make them fight amongst themselves, sparing the last one standing!
But we never played it correctly, since you also killed the survivor last time.
If you spoil it like that, it won't be much of a game, Head.
Well then, how about we get started?
Looks like I'm just in time.
What will you do now?
Reinforcements will be here soon.
Want to try facing thirty people from the clearing group?
We're leaving.
It's nice to see you again, Yolko-san.
Once everything was over, I planned to sincerely apologize.
But I doubt you'd believe me, even if I did.
I'm thankful you saved us, Kirito, but how did you know?
That those three would attack us.
I didn't really.
I just concluded that it was a possibility.
Hey, Caynz-san, Yolko-san, you two asked Grimlock-san to make those weapons for you, right?
He was unwilling at first.
He said that he wanted to let Griselda-san rest in peace.
But as we continued to plead, he gave in and made them for us.
Sadly, he wasn't opposing your plan for Griselda-san's sake.
He thought that, if you staged something as outrageous as safe area murders,
and attracted the attention of many people, someone would eventually figure it out.
I only realized it thirty minutes ago.
I ended up getting toyed with by Yolko-san,
but it doesn't really bother me.
Same here.
Say...
If you were in that situation, what would you have done with the rare drop?
Well...
One reason I'm a solo player is because I want to avoid conflicts like that.
In my case, I'd let the person who picked it up keep it.
That's my guild's rule.
In SAO, there's no way to tell who got what unless someone announces their drops.
So to avoid any trouble that could arise from that, a rule like ours is ideal.
Also, because of that, in-game marriages actually mean something.
If you get married, your item storage becomes linked to your partner's.
Things that you would have been able to hide before
come into plain sight with marriage.
Storage sharing is a really pragmatic system,
but at the same time, I think it's very romantic.
Say...
What is it?
Asuna, have you gotten married before?
No! No! Don't misunderstand!
I mean, you just said it's romantic and plastic...
That's not what I said!
I said it's romantic and pragmatic!
Pragmatic means "practical", just so you know.
Practical? Marriage in SAO?
Yep. It's really straightforward, after all.
Storage sharing, I mean.
What now?
Storage... sharing...
What happens to the items if your spouse dies?
The item storages are linked.
So what happens to them when one person dies?
Are you talking about Griselda-san and Grimlock-san?
Well, if one of them dies...
Wouldn't the remaining person get all the items then?
That means the rare ring that was in Griselda-san's storage was...
It should be in Grimlock's storage instead of the murderer's.
So the ring wasn't stolen?
No, that's not it.
It was stolen.
Grimlock stole the ring that was in the shared storage.
Grimlock...
He was the one who wrote that memo and killed Griselda?
No, he probably didn't do it in person.
He probably hired a red player to murder her.
Then why...
If he's the culprit, why did he cooperate with our plan?
You two explained your plan to him, right?
If so, he would be able to use your plan to bury the truth behind the ring incident forever.
Schmitt, Yolko-san, and Caynz-san.
All he needed was for the three of you to gather,
so he could kill you all in one fell swoop.
I see.
That's...
That's why the PK guild came here.
They've likely been in touch since Griselda-san's murder.
No way...
I found him.
Let's hear the details from the culprit himself.
Hey, it's been a while, everyone.
Grimlock-san...
Did you... Did you really...
Why, Grimlock?!
Did you really...
need the money so badly that you were willing to kill Griselda-san, your wife, and steal the ring?!
Money? Money, you say?
It wasn't for the money.
I... I had no choice but to kill her.
While she was still my wife...
We were married in the real world as well.
She was the perfect and ideal wife.
She was cute and loyal.
We hadn't argued even once.
However...
once we were trapped in this world, she changed.
I was panicking and cowering in fear at being forced to play this deadly game.
Compared to her real-world self, she was more lively and energetic in-game.
I had to accept it.
That my beloved Yuuko had vanished!
In that case...
In that case, in this world where
murders go unpunished, I should...
lock Yuuko away to remain immortal in my memories.
Who would blame me for thinking that?!
You killed your wife for a reason like that?
It was more than enough reason to.
You'll understand someday, detective boy.
When you're about to lose love that you just obtained.
No, you're the one who doesn't understand, Grimlock-san.
It wasn't love that you felt for Griselda-san.
You only treasured her as your possession!
Kirito-san, would you mind leaving him with us?
All right.
Say...
Hypothetically speaking, if you got married,
and discovered a side of your spouse that you never knew existed,
what would you think?
I guess I'd consider myself lucky.
I-I mean, marrying someone means,
you love every side of them that you already know.
So if you discover a new side of theirs and come to love that part of them too,
won't that mean you'll love them even more?
Well, I'll leave it at that.
Anyway, I'm hungry.
I missed my chance to eat earlier, too.
Y-You're right...
We've been away from the front lines for two days.
We'll have to work hard again, starting tomorrow.
Yeah.
I want to clear the current floor by the end of the week.
What is it?
Kirito-kun, let's add each other to our friend lists.
We haven't yet, right?
It's inconvenient not being able to contact each other since we're both in the clearing group.
But, I'm a solo player, so...
I never said you had to party with me.
Besides, you need to make more friends.
O-Oh, you think? I don't think it's inconvenient though—
Think about it over some food.
Let's get back to town now.
R-Right.
The far-sounding chime of a bell carried a solitary tone
tooku ni kikoeta kane no ne ga sukoshi samishikute
It rang once more, but with greater clarity and vibrance
mou ichido tsuyoku kondo wa takaku kakenuketa
Neither this ever-repeating reality nor these wishes that dot the sky
tada kurikaesu genjitsu mo hoshi no kazu no negaigoto mo
can surpass the feeling of having found meaning in tomorrow
mezasu beki asu wo mitsuketa kono omoi ni wa katenai
It's fine if the boundless world spread before me is merely a dream
me no mae ni hirakareta hatenai sekai tatoe yume demo ii
Even if it continues to waver, it always clearly resounds in my dreams
mayoi tsuzuketemo yume no oku de tsuyoku zutto zutto hibiiteku
Softly, softly shining
sotto sotto hikatteru